# Image-Blending

Image blending is the process of taking two images and combining them smoothly. It’s different than just combining images because in image blending, the output image should be seamless and have no sharp edges.The inputs of the algorithm are the two images being combined, and the mask (the layout of the output image). The output is a single blended image. The gaussian pyramid is an image consisting of multiple downsampled copies of the same image. To generate a gaussian pyramid, the image is smoothed and downsampled until the imputed level is reached.Downsampling an image is when certain pixels are removed to make the image smaller, but still retaining the overall image.To smooth an image, every pixel becomes the average of the surrounding pixels. Smoothing takes away sharp edges and makes it better when downsampled.If you downsample an image without smoothing it first, the output image becomes aliased and looks very pixelated.  The convolution operation is a function that smooths an image by taking the weighted average of surrounding pixels within the kernel size. The kernel is the size around the pixel that is being averaged and the weight of each pixel. Bigger kernels result in smoother images.The laplacian pyramid is the difference between a gaussian pyramid image and the upsampled version of the level before it.To generate a laplacian pyramid image, first a gaussian pyramid is created. Then, the gaussian pyramid one level before is upsampled and subtracted from the current gaussian image. Upsampling an image is making an image bigger by adding more pixels. For every pixel, a new one is created by averaging the pixels around it.
